In the last lecture we created this simple forum for registering new users.
And I've said that we will work now on how we can display elegantly all the validation errors that might
have happened.
And for this we'll use some of the bootstrap classes that are already there.
So when the field will be invalid We'll market with the red border and then provide all the additional
informations on why the field is invalid.
So previously we just displayed all the errors below the forum and now we'll make it nicer and display
all these errors just below the field it relates to.
So there are a couple of classes that can be used for this purpose inside the bootstrap.
And one of them is called is valid or is invalid for the fields that had to have a frame like a red
or green.
And additionally we can add those classes like this diff element with the valid feedback which which
would display this green field like looks good.
Or alternatively the one with that invalid feedback to display our possible error.
Of course I'm just using a bootstrap as an example here but of course if you have your own styles and
I assume you might have if you are doing something complicated front and oblique like world facing application
this is how you can display errors in elegant way.
So let's go back to our form.
So let's start working with the name field so we have the class specified here as the form control.
But now we also need to conditionally render additional class if this field is invalid so we can use
the larval blade interpolation syntax and as I've said and we did that before when there are any errors
in the form there is that global errors blade a variable which you have access to which is a collection
of all the errors that are related to this form.
So it has a couple of interesting methods.
One of them is Haas.
So using has we can check if there is any error with the specific name.
So this would be the name of the field.
The error is relating to.
So if the race on error of the name field we can append a style.
And as I said we will use the E dash invalid class and if there is no error we just want add anything.
So that's the first thing we will add to all of our fields except the last one the password confirmation.
So let's add it also.
Email.
Of course we need to check if there is email error here.
And last one is the password.
So lets based up here.
And of course here we are checking for the password.
We aren't adding that to the last field because it does not have any validation constraints.
It's just like a part of this confirmed constraint from the password.
So if the password is not correctly retyped the error would be displayed here.
Now we should also display some additional errors if this actually has some text errors that we can
display to the users.
So now we can use the if directive and check again if the errors variable contains any errors for the
name field close it with there.
And if and now if it does we'll are the spun element with the class invalid feedback.
So mind this is just the class name from the bootstrap if you would have your own classes for displaying
errors.
You will just use them here or we can even amplifies that so it's clearly visible what happens.
And now we'll just get the first error from the error box if there.
So now we'll just get the first error encountered so we'll get errors and use the first method on it
to get the first error to be displayed and we are displaying the error for the name field.
Now we can copy this fragment to all of our fields except of course the password confirmation case so
let me reformat that quickly
OK now we should see errors for all of those fields when there is something that we have sent which
would be an invalid data.
So let's verify that if this works.
So let's submit something.
Invite now let let's see that we have that frame over all the fields that are invalid.
We also see that that e-mail address is invalid and that the password has to have at least six characters.
Now if you would specify more characters and something in retype the password that is different from
the password you can see that the passwords do not match.
Also you might have noticed that we are typing those passwords as plaintext.
So we should modified that inputs for the password to be of different type.
Now the password type should be password and the same with our retyped passwords.
So to type for passwords should always be password.
And now when you type it it's hidden.
So you do not see what the user is typing.
Now if I will provide a valid e-mail like valid valid claim some valid passwords like ABC the E F and
the same for the retyped password.
A B C D E F and some valid name you can see that I can actually register with the one exception that
we are being redirected to the slash home page which doesn't exist.
And as I recently as I said when we talked about the registration controller we can configure that here
so I can modify that to redirect the user to the slash page not the home one.
But anyway let's see if the user is there so you can see that the user was registered it has the password
and we can log into that account.
But first of course we would have to create the logging form.